# Fundamental-constants-h-c-and-Universal-gravitational-constant-G-are-not-independently-constant.

Fundamental Constants h (Planck Constant), c (Speed of Causality) and G (Universal Gravitational Constant) are not independently constant.

										                                                                                                              Date : 13 October, 2022

	Fundamental constants ( Planck constant h, Universal gravitation constant G and speed of light c) as we perceive which contributes to the foundation of fundamental laws of physics in foundational theories of physics namely relativity, electrodynamics, quantum theory, classical mechanics and thermodynamics are themselves variables and subjective to change. These changes have been observed in the measurement of fine structure constant over the period of time by ‘W. M. Keck Observatory’ and ‘VLT’ in three different research paper since 1998. Those papers are as follows, “A Search for Time Variation of the Fine Structure Constant 1998,  A search for time variation of fine structure constant, 2011 and ‘Martins & Pinho’ Stability of Fundamental Couplings: A Global Analysis 2016”. Reason for this can be derived in terms of the fundamental laws and constants (G, h, c ) and Einstein’s field equations from general theory of relativity.

PROOF THAT FUNDAMENTAL CONSTANTS ARE CHANGING THEIR VALUES

	From current understanding of physics, the ratio of fundamental force of  gravitational interaction and electrostatic interaction is of the order 10^42 factor. At very small ranges of quantum realms, upon fusing principles of quantum mechanics and relativity it can be found that ratio of both the fundamental forces becomes one. Reason for the same is explainable upon calculation of behaviour of electrons in a very small distance. 
	If two electrons are bought closer to each other, then due to different constants of proportionality, the ratio of electromagnetic and gravitational force remains of 10^42 order only in the classical understanding. But since electrons have charges on them, that charge contributes to stored potential energy between the system of charges. From Conservation of angular momentum and corresponding fundamental constant h ( Planck constant ) it is not possible for electron to reside inside the nucleus. For the smallest atom which is hydrogen, radius of nucleus is of the order 10^ -15 meters, effectively it is impossible for electron to reach a distance of 10^ -15 meters order of another charge. Same things is claimed by Neil Bohr’s second postulate that states the quantisation of angular momentum i.e. mvr = nh, where n = k/4pi such that k belongs to the set of natural numbers and thus cannot be 0. Substituting k = 1 gives the radius domain of first orbital where probability of having an electron is finite corresponding to the mass of electron and speed which can be calculated by conservation of energy by balancing the potential and kinetic energy. Upon calculation, electrostatic potential energy stored between a pair of electrons at a separation of 10^ -15 meter from
		 U = k e^2/r where 		U- electrostatic potential energy
						r = separation between the charges
						e = charge on an electron  	Mapping this energy to corresponding mass from mass-energy equivalence relation, m = E/c^2, the mass factor comes out to be 10^ -14 kg. If the same amount of mass contribution is added to individual electron, then ratio of fundamental force of gravitational interaction and electrostatic interaction becomes equivalent to 1.
Note: Bringing two electrons close to the distance of atomic nucleus  radius which is not allowed according to quantum mechanics, the amount of energy required is exactly the same as it is required to make an electron with the rest mass defined from any form of energy which is not exactly mass itself. This whole interpretation has be compiled in our frame of reference but there is also an alternative approach to understand the same result with all the consistencies. 
Proof:	If a particle is confined in a zone of space of length with an uncertainty delta r, then from Heisenberg uncertainty principle
				Delta r * Delta p > h / 2 pi	    where p is momentum of particle
As position and momentum are conjugate variables as they are Fourier transform duals each other so by slight manipulation energy and time are also. 		such that		Delta E . Delta t > h / 2pi  		in our frame of reference if Delta E approaches 10^31 joules order, uncertainty in position becomes equivalent to Planck length which implies, electron that has rest mass defined is moving with speed approaching to speed of light i.e. c. Since at speed of light relativistic effects dominates, we have to take into account the quantum and relativistic effects together. Combing both of them mathematically gives the consistency with quantum mechanics’s conclusion that electron cannot be found inside the nucleus.   In the frame of reference of electron what is happening can be found using relativity. EXPLANATION: 
		If there are two observer A and B moving with a relative speed v with respect to each other then, from Lorentz transformation equation of relativity both of them their time passing at different rates. Individually no one of them is absolute instead measurement is relative always. A will be perceiving the time of B passing at a slower rate and vice-versa.  In the gravity of above point, we need an absolute unit of time to measure which of them having time rate faster or slower than other. Sir Max Planck paper on Planck units defines a set of units that can be defined as the System Universal as every standard unit in them are derived from dimensional analysis. Since fundamental laws of physics have their foundation laid on the constants h, c and G. Since all of them have certain dimension associated with their magnitude, then from basic algorithm of dimensional analysis we have
			c^x . h^y. G^z = t	where a, b and c are arbitrary numbers and x is the observable unit that we want to achieve dimensionally.  	Substituting t with the dimension of time we get x = -5/2, y = 1/2 and z = 1/2. Since the fundamental constants h, c and G are claimed to constants everywhere in the universe from current understanding of physics. This implies, unit of time achieved through dimensional analysis is independent of relative speed or relativistic variation in the measurement instead can be claimed to be system international for conveying the measurements to any place in universe.
The value of System universal standard unit of time from above calculation is known as Planck time. Note: Since both the observers have their time flowing at different rates but none of them individually can perceive it until observing another event happening, this implies directly that duration of 1 second is different for both of them. But in system universal ( Planck units ) 1 Planck time has a certain magnitude of time expressed in terms of fundamental constants which is supposed to be a constant throughout universe, then individually both the observer A and B have different number of Planck time multiplies in the duration of one second of a third  observer who is observing who is measuring this. But different multiplies of Planck units at two different locations of space which directly claims,  c^-5/2 * h^1/2 * G^1/2 has different values at different location of space i.e. location of A and B. This further implies that fundamental constants h, c and G have different values for corresponding different locations and that directly implies fundamental constants are changing their values and change in the values is dependent on the relative speed of the system under observation. 
Conclusion: In the frame of reference of electron the potential energy acquired by the electron pair was contributing to changes in the fundamental constants. That change in fundamental constants was the responsible factor for the ratio of force of gravitational interaction and electrostatic interaction to become equivalent to 1 as the separation between the electron reaches order of nucleus dimension which effectively quantum mechanics doesn’t allow as possibility for minimum separation between two charged particles. Further this is verifiable that same results can be achieved using any values for x, y and z and mapping corresponding to right hand side dimension. For convenience we can do it for the fundamental units i.e. mass, length, time, temperature, etc.   Compilation of all the above data explain together with Einstein’s field equations that curvature of space-time is a function of mass per radial distance squared i.e. (M / r^2). Since time slows down near heavy objects, this is similar two reference frames moving relative to each other with finite speed. With the same context since duration of one second is different at location close to massive object as compared to location at a much distance apart. This means the fundamentals constants have different values at different locations of space and that is itself a function of curvature of space-time which is explained in Einstein’s Field Equations. Thus, Values of fundamental constant is a function of mass distribution in space. Also since mass and energy are equivalent, this implies either the presence of mass or momentum wraps the space time geometry to define the values of fundamental constants there. This exactly explains the relative dilation in the observables.
DILUSIONAL PARADOX

The reason why the change in the magnitude of constants was not observed is because most of the measurements for the magnitude of fundamental constants were done in laboratories where total energy or mass difference between observer and observable or experimental setup was very small, i.e. of Planck order so instruments used were not precise enough to measure the change. But if enough amount of mass (Einstein’s field equation) or equivalently momentum (Lorentz transformation equation) can make the deviation from the observed values quite substantial. As a whole the magnitude of constants is only a function of energy and can be equally be mapped to corresponding amount of mass from mass energy equivalence relation i.e. E = mc^2.
References: 
Planck-scale physics: facts and beliefs 
Diego Meschini∗ Department of Physics, University of Jyv ̈askyl ̈a, 
PL 35 (YFL), FI-40014 Jyv ̈askyl ̈a, Finland. January 23, 2006 

Webb et al. 1998, A Search for Time Variation of the Fine Structure Constant 
https://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/9803165

Webb et al. 2011, A Search for Time Variation of the Fine Structure Constant
https://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3907

Martins & Pinho 2016, Stability of Fundamental Couplings: a Global Analysis
https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08724

Albert Einstein's 1916 Review Article on General Relativity https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.physics/0405066




~ Arpit Singh.	
Department of physics UG. University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun.
